TODO
- [✓] Functions Chapter
	- [✓] Problem 48, 49, 50, 51, 52.
	- [✓] Put this in header and source file(For practicing).
- [○] Create the git account
	- [✓] Create git account
	- [✗] Take notes on how it functions
	- [✗] Upload the function problems(chapter 6)to git
- [✗] Watch LDD1 videos(udemy) from 13 to 21
	- [✗] Make organized notes

= Notes =
== Youtube ==
Got the the proints from ali abdaal video. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rkRC728rIU

*Copied from the commenter*
1. You need systems to achieve goals. But that doesn't mean goals are pointless.
2. Goals serve as a compass so your systems don't take you in the wrong direction.
3. Systems ensure you actually reach the goals you set (and you don't stay stuck in your head).
4. You get to choose the future that directs your present (this is called "living consciously").
5. Everything you do is to create an outcome. Why not just be honest about what you want?
6. Motivation is easier to create when you're clear about the outcome you want.
7. Measure yourself against where you were in the past not where someone else is now.

== Neovim ==
Got the calendar plugin working in vim. It's useful when combined with vimwiki.
Installed this plugin: 
Plug 'mattn/calendar-vim'

== Super Tired ==
*3:46 PM*
Unable to concentrate because I'm tired and I cant even sleep, if I do sleep 
father will shout at me. I'm tired because I didn't sleep well last night.
In the morning every one was sleeping so I was not able to sleep (I need to 
do the business). It's like my life is being controlled by my parents. So I'm
confused everytime. I feel good to write because nobody listens to me, they 
ignore whatever I say and blame me. So I will read it and comfirt myself.
SIGH.....

== Feel Relaxed ==
*11:09 PM*
After sleeping I'm not having any negative thoughts. I'm kind of procrastinating
now but I'm going to do task which I have assigned.

== Thats It For The Day==
*1:24 AM*
Created git account but I'm not feeling to take notes. I want to watch movie or 
read manga. 

