* Extern keyword is applicable on global variables and functions.
* Variables which is declared outside the function is called global variables.
* Global variables can be accessed below all the functions till wnd of file from where they are declared or defined.
* To access the global variables in main function we have to use extern keyword or declare that variable with extern
  keyword.
{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenOld/externKeyword1.c}}

extern int x
* When you declare a variable with extern keyword this is to inform the compiler that variables memory is allocated 
somewhere, simply access that variable.
* We should not define a global variable locally(inside function) along with extern keyword.
* First time for a global variable we can apply extern keyword, it won't give error but warnings.
* A global variable which is difined/declared in one file cannot be access in another file directly.

{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenOld/externKeyword2.c}}
{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenOld/externKeyword3.c}}

For above two files when we do gcc 1.c 2.c we will get compilation error. Instead we need to do the following.

{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/externKeyword4.c}}
{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/externKeyword5.c}}

In above the scope of x variable is increased till end of function. This variable 'x' cannot be accessed in below
the increment function. Because extern int x; is declared locally to increment function. If we want variable 'x' to 
be available till end of file then we have to declare extern int x; above all functions.

{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/externKeyword6.c}}
{{file:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/externKeyword7.c}}

For local variables
Lifetime:
	Program loading time till program terminates.
Scope:
	File scope(global variables)
Default Values:
	Zeros
Storage Location
	.bss or data segment
	
For global variables
Lifetime:
	Program loading time to till program terminates.
Scope:
	We can increase the scope from file to program.
Initial Values:
	Uninitialized global variables conatins zeros. Initiallized global variables contain initiallized values.
Storage Location:
	.data or .bss segment.
