* What is above stack?
	* command line args and environment variables.

* Why stack grows
	* When function is invoked
	* When a new thread is created a block of memory is created in stack
* Why heap grows
	* 

* Process
	* Memory segments in userspace and pcb in kernel space both collectively called it as process.
		* text segments contain instructions, data segment contains global initialized vars info, 
		  bss has 
	* There could be 100s or 1000s of process running in your system.

* What is PCB and what does it contains.
	* PCB: process control block or process descriptor
	* It contains process information (IQ)
	* These are objects of type task_struct
	* Every process has unique id called pid(process identifier) and ppid. Every process is created 
    from another process.
	* It has file descriptor
		* fd table contains info about files which are opened from program or process.
	* signal disposition table
		* When program goes into infinite loop we can use signals to terminate(ctrl+c) and 
      suspend(ctrl+z). Find out other key combinations used in kernel applications. These key 
			combinations can generate signals.
		* Any other example where signals are used?
			* Inproper handling of pointers. 
			  Example: In linked lists if its not handled properly it crash during runtime or execution time.
				It crashes with seg fault. Here program is aborted using signal mechanism. 
		* It maintains signals behaviour or disposition of signals or signal's disposition
		* It contains page table
			* To understand it we need to know about virtual memory.
				* To understand virtual memory we need to understand paging technique and address translating
	* PCBs which belong to multiple process are maintained as nodes in double linked lists. This 
		list is called as running queue. List of pcbs are maintained or handled in process management 
		subsystem.
		* Who is maintaining running queue.
			* Process management subsystem maintains or handles this running queue. 
	* Any other mechanism to create to process? How do you create a new process. How do you create a 
		child process (IQ)? 
		* Using a system call(fork or vfork). System calls are used in userspace application. 
		* The process from where the fork is invoked thats called as parent process.
		* Why do we need system call?
			* To send request to various subsystems of kernel. Every system call has equivalent kernel 
				call. 
* When cpu is executing instructions from .text segment, when it calls fork the control will 
	goes from userspace to kernel space. When fork is invoked internally sys_fork(kernel call) will 
	be invoked. fork is actually sending request to kernelspace subsystem(process management). A 
	new pcb will be created for child process. A process which invokes fork system call is called as 
	parent process and new Process which is created is called child process. The parent process PCB 
	it has some members:
	1. Process ID(PID)
	2. Parent Process ID (PPID)
	3. Signal disposition table 
	4. Page table

	* Some members of parent process pcb are copied to child process pcb. which members are copied?(IQ) 
		* fd table
		* page table
	* The contents of fd table are inherited from where?
		* The contents of fd table are inherited from parent process to child process. This new child 
			process will create some new memory in userspace. Then contents of parent process memory 
			segments are copied as it is to child process memory segments. The child process is exact 
			replica of parent process.
		* From a single program can we create multiple process?(IQ)
			* Yes, from one program we are creating parent process and child process. From fork we can 
				have parent as well as child process. Both parent and child has to execute different 
				blocks of code for tasks. To understand the execution of parent and child process visualize 
				two c programs.
* After fork both parent and child should execute different process. 
  * {{file:/home/basith/Coding/system_programming/viven_system_programming/fork_vs.c|Read system call basic (program 2)}} 
	* If there are no conditional statements then parent and child will execute same program. Its no 
		use executing same program.
	* Child process execution will start after the statement fork. fork returns twice once in child 
		process and once in parent process. 
	* What does fork return in your parent process and child process?(IQ)
		* PID of child process in parent process.
		* In child process fork returns zero.
		* Write a basic program here to understand fork system call.
	* statements or code that needs to be executed in parent process has to be under default 
		case(switch case scenario).
	* statements or code that needs to be executed in child process has to be under case 0 
		(switch case scenario).
* To see the running process use ps command and/or top command.
* What is orphan process, daemon process and zombie process?
	* Once the main function completes the parent process is terminated and memory of this process is 
		offloaded from userspace of ram and pcb will also be destroyed.
	* If a parent process terminates even before child process then its called as an orphan process.
	* What is the parent process id of orphan process? (IQ)
	* 1 is the pid of init process. init process is the first process which runs after OS bootsup.
	* How do you make sure that parent waits till child process terminates?
		* using wait system call.
	* 
