= Introduction =

*What is git?*
	It's version control system. It's free and open source.
	
*What is version control?*
	The management of changes to documents, computer programs, large web sites,
	and other collections of information.

*Terms to know*
	Repository: Project, or the folder/place where your project is kept.
	Github: A website to host your repositories online.

= Git Commands =

	*clone:* Bring a repository that is hosted somewhere like Github into a folder
			 on your local machine
	*add:* Track your files and changes in git
	*commit:* Save your files in git
	*push:* Upload git commits to a remote repo, like Github/Gitlab etc.
	*pull:* Download changes from remote repo to your local machine, the opposite
			of push
			
= Setting Up ssh for github =

	Create the github account and then do the following steps.
	
	We need to link github and our computer for communication.
	To link computer to github use the ssh keys. The below line will generate 
	ssh keys. 
	
	ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "email@example.com".
	
	The email provided will be used as our github account. Make sure github 
	account email and the email you typed matches. Follow the steps on command
	line, when it finishes it will generate two files. Private and Public.
	
	1. id_rsa (Private)
	2. id_rsa.pub (This is public key which we need to use for github)
	
	Open id_rsa.pub and copy/add that key to github(under github settings). 
	
	Add the below lines to .ssh/config file in your local machine. 
	
	Host *
	AddKeysToAgent yes
	# UserKeychain yes (this line doesnt work so I commented it out)
	IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
	
	Now add ssh private key to ssh-agent.
	ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
		
= Git Command examples =
	command: 
		<span style="color:#d79921;">git init </span>
		This command will initialize the git repository in the current folder.
	
	command: 
	
		*git status*
	
		After initialization, do git status, if there are any files in current
		folder it will say untracked files.
		
	command: *git add <file/directory>*
	
		To add the entire current directory to github do 
		
		*git add .* 
		
		Here . represents	current working directory. It can also add individual 
		file. The below command will add README.wiki to git. This command track 
		changes of directory/files which was added.
		
		*git add README.wiki*
		
	command: *git commit -m "Title Comment" -m "Description"*
		This will commit any chages you made to a file or in the directory which
		git recognizes
	
	command:	*git push origin master*
		This will push the chages to github. If you added a file it will add
		those files and if you did any modifications to a file those modifications
		will be pushed/uploaded. If you want to just type git push but not the 
		origin master then do *git push -u origin master*. Once you did that then  
		you dont have to type origin master again and again, just do git push.
