= Automatic Storage Class=

* By default all local variables are applied with auto storage class. 
* For formal arguments no storage class is applicable.  
* Functions stack frame will get destroyed after the execution has been done. 
	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenOld/automatic_storage_class1.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 1}} 
	  The stack frame of increment is created and destroyed for every function invocation. 
	  The variable 'x' memory is allocated within that stack frame and this variable memory is destroyed when 
	  function completes its execution. 
	
	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenOld/automatic_storage_class2.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 2}}  
	  The variable 'y' memory is created and destroyed for every iteration. 
	  
* Programs:
	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenNew/automatic_storage_class3.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 3}} 
	  Since variable 'a' is automatic variable, it will store in the stack area. Scope of variable 'a' is 
	  within for loop. So after each iteration variable a will be deleted from stack and in each iteration 
	  variable a will be initialize.
		  
	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenNew/automatic_storage_class4.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 4}} 
	  The variable 'a' scope is within the main function and its not accessible in sample() function, compiler 
	  will throw an error saying a is not declared. In short its scope is limited to main function.

	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenNew/automatic_storage_class5.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 5}} 
	  The variable 'b' scope(anonymous scope) is within the block, it's not accessible outside the block.

	- {{vfile:/home/basith/Coding/CProgramming/vivenEmbeddedAcademy/vivenNew/automatic_storage_class6.c|Automatic Storage Class Program 6}} 
	  When the function fun() is called everytime then its stack frame will be destroyed and recreated. With this 
	  the automatic variables within it will be destroyed and recreate as well.

* Properties of automatic storage class
	- *Lifetime:*
		* From memory allocation time to till the end of the function or block.

	- *Scope:*
		* Function scope or block scope.

	- *Default Values:*
		* Garbage Values.

	- *Storage Location:*
		* Stack frame of corresponding function. 
		  
