*Lecturer: Sunil*
*Date: 2020-08-24*

Essential Books:
----------------
	1. Essential Linux Device Drivers
	2. Linux Device Drivers 3
	3. Embedded Linux Primer 
	   
= Introduction =
================

* Linux kernel is the main core component of a system which also requires libraries and applications to provide 
  features to end users. Linux is created by Linus Torvalds. Now a days more than 1000 people is contributing to 
  linux kernel, it includes individuals, big and small companies.

Features of kernel:
* Linux kernel supports 30+ architectures. It can be ported to any one particular architecture and has huge hardware 
  support.
* Scalability, it can run on super computers as well as on tiny devices.
* It has huge networking support.
* Security, it is more secure and flaws cannot be hidden.
* Its code is reviewed by many experts.
* Its more stable and reliable.
* Its modular, drivers can be loaded and unloaded at run time.
* Easy to program and developers can learn from existing code. 

Linux kernel Main Roles: 
* Linux kernel manages all hardware resources like CPU, memory, I/O devices. It provides a set of portable 
  architecture and hardware independent api(application programming interface) to allow user applications and 
  libraries to use the hardware resources.
  
  Applications use libraries, library functions invokes system calls and system calls will use drivers and 
  drivers will interact with hardware. 
  
  Linux kernel will provide 300+ system calls. It can handle concurrent accesses and usage of hardware resources 
  from different applications.
  
  The main interface between kernel and user space is the set of system calls. These 300+ system calls can provide 
  the main kernel services like file and device operations, networking operations, interprocess communication 
  mechanism, process management, memory mapping, timers, threads, synchronizing primitives etc. This system call 
  interface is stable over time and only new system calls can be added by kernel developers. The system call
  interface is wrapped by c library. The user applications can never make a system call directly. 

